layouts_makie (#65)
JuliaDataScience/JuliaDataScience: contents/data_vis.md

### Layouts {#sec:makie_layouts}

> A complete _canvas/layout_ is defined by `Figure`, which can be fill up afterwards with content. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A complete _canvas/layout_ is defined by `Figure`, which can be filled with content after creation.
```

We will start with a simple arrangment of one `Axis`, one `Legend` and one `Colorbar`. 
For this task we can think of the canvas as an arrangment of `rows` and `columns`. 

> The `Axis` content will be in _row 1, column 1_, e.g. `fig[1,1]`, the `Colorbar` in _row 1, column 2_, namely `fig[1,2]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Axis` content will be in _row 1, column 1_, e.g. `fig[1, 1]`, the `Colorbar` in _row 1, column 2_, namely `fig[1,2]`.
```

Reviewer: Since this is just regular indexing of an object like in many places in Julia, it's probably more easy readable for people when there is a space behind the comma

And the `Legend` in _row 2_ and across _column 1 and 2_, namely `fig[2,1:2]`. 

```jl
@sco JDS.first_layout()
```

This does not look good. Next, we fix the spacing problems using the following keywords and methods: 

- `figure_padding = (left, right, bottom, top)`
- `padding =  (left, right, bottom, top)` 

Taking into account the actual size for a `Legend` or `Colorbar` is done by 

> - `tellheight = true or false`
> - `tellwidth = true or false` 
>
> _Setting this to `true` will take into account the actual size(height or width) for a `Legend` or `Colorbar`_.
> And then, things will be resized accordingly. 

The space between columns and rows is specified as 

> - `colgap!(fig.layout, col, separation)`
> - `rowgap!(fig.layout, row, separation)`
>
> _Column gap_, if `col` is given then the gap will be applied to that column. 
>_Row gap_ ,if `row` is given then the gap will be applied to that row. 

Also, we will see how to put content into the **protrusions**, _i.e._ the space reserved for _title, x - (ticks,label), y - (ticks,label)_. 

> We do this by plotting into `fig[i,j, protrusion]` where _`protrusion`_ can be `Left()`, `Right()`, `Bottom()` and `Top()`, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do this by plotting into `fig[i, j, protrusion]` where _`protrusion`_ can be `Left()`, `Right()`, `Bottom()` and `Top()`, 
```

or for each corner `TopLeft()`, `TopRight()`, `BottomRight()`, `BottomLeft()`. 
See below how these options are being used. 

```jl
@sco JDS.first_layout_fixed()
```

> Here, probably having the label `(a)` in the `TopLeft()` is not necessary, this will make sense for more than two plots. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, having the label `(a)` in the `TopLeft()` is probably not necessary, this will only make sense for more than two plots.
```

For our next example let's use the previous tools and some more to create a more complex figure. 

You can hide decorations and axis's spines with

> - `hidedecorations!(ax; kwargs...)`
> - `hidexdecorations!(ax; kwargs...)`
> - `hideydecorations!(ax; kwargs...)`
> - `hidespines!(ax; kwargs...)`

Remember, we can always ask for help to see what kind of arguments we can use, e.g.,

```jl
s = """
    help(hidespines!)
    """
sco(s)
```

Or, for decorations

```jl
s = """
    help(hidedecorations!)
    """
sco(s)
```

> For elements that **you don't want to hide**, just pass them with `false`, i.e. `hideydecorations!(ax, ticks = false, grid = false)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For elements that **you don't want to hide**, just pass them with `false`, i.e. `hideydecorations!(ax; ticks=false, grid=false)`.
```

Synchronizing your `Axis` is done via

> - `linkaxes! linkyaxes! linkxaxes!`
>
> This could be useful when shared axis are desired. Another way of getting shared axis will be by setting `limits!`.

Setting `limits` at once or independenly for each axis is done by calling 

> - `limits!(ax; l,r,b,t)`
> You can also do `ylims!(low, high)` or `xlims!(low, high)`, and even open ones by doing `ylims!(low=0)` or `xlims!(high=1)`.

Now, the example:

```jl
@sco JDS.complex_layout_double_axis()
```

So, now our `Colorbar` needs to be horizontal and the bar ticks be in the lower part. 
This is done by setting `vertical = false` and `flipaxis = false`. 
Also, note that we can call many `Axis` into `fig`, or even `Colorbar`'s and `Legend`'s, and then afterwards build the layout. 

> Another common layout is a grid of squares for heatmaps. See next example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another common layout is a grid of squares for heatmaps:
```

```jl
@sco JDS.squares_layout()
```

> Where, all labels are in the **protrusions** and each `Axis` has an `AspectData()` ratio. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where all labels are in the **protrusions** and each `Axis` has an `AspectData()` ratio. 
```

> The `Colorbar` is located in the third column and extpands from row 1 up to row 2. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Colorbar` is located in the third column and expands from row 1 up to row 2. 
```

> The next case uses the so called `Mixed()` **alignmode**, which is specially useful when dealing with large empty spaces between `Axis` due to long ticks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next case uses the so called `Mixed()` **alignmode**, which is especially useful when dealing with large empty spaces between `Axis` due to long ticks. 
```

```jl
@sco JDS.mixed_mode_layout()
```

> Here, the argument `alignmode =Mixed(bottom=0)` it's shifting the bounding box to the bottom, so that this will align with the panel on the left filling the space. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, the argument `alignmode = Mixed(bottom=0)` is shifting the bounding box to the bottom, so that this will align with the panel on the left filling the space. 
```

Also, see how `colsize!` and `rowsize!` are being used for different columns and rows. 
You could also put a number instead of `Auto()` but then everything will be fixed. 
And, additionally, one could also give a `height` or `width` when defining the `Axis`, as in `Axis(fig, heigth = 50)` which will be fixed as well.

#### Nested `Axis` (_subplots_)

It is also possible to define a set of `Axis` (_subplots_) explicitly, and use it to build a main figure with several rows and columns. 
For instance, the following its a "complicated" arrangment of `Axis`

```jl
@sc nested_sub_plot!(fig)
```

> which, when used to build a more complex figure by doing several calls, we obatain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which, when used to build a more complex figure by doing several calls, we obtain
```

```jl
@sco JDS.main_figure()
```

> Note that, different subplot functions can be call here. Also, each `Axis` here is an independ part of `Figure`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that, different subplot functions can be called here.
Also, each `Axis` here is an independent part of `Figure`. 
```

> So that, if you need to do some `rowgap!`'s or `colsize!`'s opperations, you will need to do it in each one of them independenly or to all of them together. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So that, if you need to do some `rowgap!`'s or `colsize!`'s operations, you will need to do it in each one of them independently or to all of them together. 
```

which, when used to build a more complex figure by doing several calls, we obtain

```jl
@sco JDS.main_figure()
```

Note that, different subplot functions can be called here.
Also, each `Axis` here is an independent part of `Figure`. 
So that, if you need to do some `rowgap!`'s or `colsize!`'s operations, you will need to do it in each one of them independently or to all of them together. 

For grouped `Axis` (_subplots_) we can use `GridLayout()` which then could be used to composed a more complicated `Figure`. 

#### Nested GridLayout

By using `GridLayout()` we can group subplots, allowing more freedom to build complex figures. 
Here, using our previous `nested_sub_plot!` we define three sub-groups and one normal `Axis`. 

```jl
@sco JDS.nested_Grid_Layouts()
```

Now, using `rowgap!` or `colsize!` over each group is possible and `rowsize!, colsize!` can also be applied to the set of `GridLayout()`s. 

#### Inset plots

Currently, doing `inset` plots is a little bit tricky. Here, we show two possible ways of doing it by defining first auxiliary functions. 
The first one is by doing a `BBox`, which lives in the whole `Figure` space. Namely,

```jl
@sc add_box_inset(fig)
```

> Then, the `inset` is easily done, as in 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, the `inset` is easily done, as in:
```

```jl
@sco JDS.figure_box_inset()
```

> where the `Box` dimensions are bound by the `Figure`'s `resolution`. Note, that an inset can be also outside the `Axis`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
where the `Box` dimensions are bound by the `Figure`'s `resolution`.
Note, that an inset can be also outside the `Axis`. 
```

The other approach, is by defininig a new `Axis` into a position `fig[i,j]` specifying his `width`, `height`, `halign` and `valign`.
We do that in the following function:

```jl
@sc add_axis_inset()
```

> See that in the following example this `Axis`(grey one) will be rescaled if the total figure size changes. The _insets_ are bound by the `Axis` positioning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See that in the following example the `Axis` with gray background will be rescaled if the total figure size changes.
The _insets_ are bound by the `Axis` positioning.
```

```jl
@sco JDS.figure_axis_inset()
```

> And this should cover most used cases for layouting with Makie. Now, let's do some nice 3d examples with  `GLMakie.jl`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And this should cover most used cases for layouting with Makie.
Now, let's do some nice 3D examples with  `GLMakie.jl`.
```

For our next example let's use the previous tools and some more to create a more complex figure. 

You can hide decorations and axis's spines with

> - `hidedecorations!(ax; kwargs...)`
> - `hidexdecorations!(ax; kwargs...)`
> - `hideydecorations!(ax; kwargs...)`
> - `hidespines!(ax; kwargs...)`

Remember, we can always ask for help to see what kind of arguments we can use, e.g.,

```jl
s = """
    help(hidespines!)
    """
sco(s)
```

Or, for decorations

```jl
s = """
    help(hidedecorations!)
    """
sco(s)
```

For elements that **you don't want to hide**, just pass them with `false`, i.e. `hideydecorations!(ax; ticks=false, grid=false)`.

Synchronizing your `Axis` is done via

> - `linkaxes! linkyaxes! linkxaxes!`
>
> This could be useful when shared axis are desired. Another way of getting shared axis will be by setting `limits!`.

Setting `limits` at once or independenly for each axis is done by calling 

> - `limits!(ax; l,r,b,t)`
> You can also do `ylims!(low, high)` or `xlims!(low, high)`, and even open ones by doing `ylims!(low=0)` or `xlims!(high=1)`.

Now, the example:

```jl
@sco JDS.complex_layout_double_axis()
```

> So, now our `Colorbar` needs to be horizontal and the bar ticks be in the lower part. 

Author: ```suggestion
So, now our `Colorbar` needs to be horizontal and the bar ticks need to be in the lower part. 
```
